1. The project can be run using cmake and make as per the instructions provided.

2. The model description
Since the waypoints are in map coordinates, they are first transformed in to vehicle coordinates (by translation followed by rotation).

Given MPC is a constrained optimization problem at every time step over some finite time horizon, having a good vehicle dynamics model is very important. However, there is tradeoff between model accuracy and computation speed. And given the optimization problem is to be solved at every point in time, the model cannot be very complicated due to computational challenges. For this project, the model used is the basic kinematics model presented in the lectures. It is a state-space based kinematics model with the following components constituting the state:
	a. x position of the car
	b. y position of the car
	c. psi (orientation) of the car
	d. v (velocity/speed) of the car
	e. cte (cross track error) is the difference between the car position and the reference trajectory. This error needs to be minimized.
	f. epsi (psi error) is the difference between the car's orientation and the desired orientation. This is to be minimized.

The actuation includes throttle (controls acceleration) and steering angle (controls orientation) of the car.

The update equations are basically kinematic equations of motion used to set constaints on the optimization problem so that the optimization takes in to account the vehicle dynamics.

The cost function to be minimized is a quadratic cost function of cte, epsi, difference between current and desired speed, actuations, as well as the rate of change of actuations. cte and epsi are given large weights as well as the rate of change of steeringing angle and throttle for a smooth and accurate controller.

In order to speedup the optimization process, the the initial values of actuations (sent to the MPC solver) is the same as the last set of actuations. This is better than setting the initial actuations to zero or to randomly select them.


3. N and dt are two of the many parameters used for tuning the MPC. N and dt together determines the horizon over which optimization is to be performed. In addition to computational challenges of using a large N, given the model is not perfect, the optimization horizon should not be too long as model inaccuracies will cause erroneous actuation predictions for longer periods of time. However, on the other hand, to develop an optimal control policy, it is important to predict over a longer time horizon in order to better account for the effect of current acctuation on future cte. Moreover, the higher the desired speed of the car, the longer the prediciton horizon needs to be inorder to obtain the best control actions and stability. Hence, there is a tradeoff.

After performing various iterations, I chose N of 10 and dt of 150mS. The choice of dt is also dependent on latency as described in more detail below.

4. A third order (cubic) polynomial is used to fit the waypoints data received from telemetry. This polynomial is then used to describe the reference trajectory at each time step over the horizon when performing the optimization. The waypoints were not preprocessed, instead, a polynomial curve is fitted in real time for best performance and robustness.

5. The controller is designed to work well with a latency of 100mS in the actuation commands.
MPC controllers are generally much better in handling latency due to the following two reasons:
	a. The initial state used by the MPC solver is generated by predicting the measured state forward in time (latency time) using the kinematic model of the 		   vehicle and asssuming the previous set of actuations hold over the latency period.
	b. Furthermore, the dt parameter is set to be slightly larger than the latency so that the model predictions implicitly take latency into account.
	   Together with these two approaches, the controller is designed to handle latncy of even hundreds of milli-seconds.


6. The vehcle never leaves the drivable portion of the track while moving at a maximum speed of almost 80mph. Which much better than was able to achieve using the PID controller or even using behavioural cloning using CNNs.



